Overivew:  The aim was to set ourselves up with a test system that would give us an automated way to run tests against our PRs.  At the outset of this, our repo had no tests of any sort, so the first task became getting some basic tests running against the bits in our repo.

Our tests are based on the utilities found in https://github.com/openshift/origin/tree/master/hack/lib which are a set of bash functions and scripts that facilitate a reasonably fast way to develop and run a set of tests against either OpenShift itself or, in our case, a set of applications running on OpenShift.  Trevor McKay had adapted those tests for use in radanalytics and then re-adapted them for testing operators running in OpenShift.  We have borrowed Trevor’s test runner (https://github.com/crobby/peak --a fork of is work with one small tweak I applied) that will search a subdirectory tree for scripts that match a given regular expression (ie:  ‘tests’ would find all scripts that have ‘tests’ anywhere in their full path or name), so it is easy to run a single test or a large group of tests.

Each test script has a small amount of boilerplate code followed by a series of bash tests.  Each test could call out to another utility/language/whatever.  The utilities available in the testing library can check for specific results in text/exit code/etc of each call.  Any test lines that produce a failed result are tabulated and reported at the end of the test runs.  Of course, the stdout/stderr of each failed call is also available in addition to whatever other logging your test call might produce.  Here’s what I would call the main building block of the tests:  https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/hack/lib/cmd.sh It defines what amount to wrappers around whatever calls you want to make in your tests and handles the parsing of the result text/exit codes.
